Add blog post for Synapse 1.72/71/70 (#1572)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/blog/2022/11/2022-11-22-synapse-1.72.mdx

Prometheus conventions and a new compliant name.

Synapse 1.71 and later have the old metric names switched off by default.

For now it's still possible to get them by using `enable_legacy_metrics: true`,
however server administrators still using legacy metric names are highly
encouraged to migrate, as they will be removed in 1.73.

You can find the full list of renamed metrics
[here](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.72/metrics-howto.html#renaming-of-metrics--deprecation-of-old-names-in-12).

### Changes to the events received by application services (interest)

Following the implementation of
[MSC3905](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3905),
Synapse now only considers local users to be interesting to application
services. In other words, the users namespace regex in an app service's
registration file is only applied against local users of the homeserver.

Please note, this probably doesn't affect the expected behavior of your
application service, since an interesting local user in a room still means all
messages in the room (from local or remote users) will still be considered
interesting.

> You can find a bit more info in the MSC and in the (upgrade

Reviewer: This markdown link seems to be the wrong way around. :)

Reviewer 2: Bleh, so it is, /me fixes

Thanks for pointing it out!

Reviewer 2: Fixed in https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix.org/commit/5ec81c25bd7296c659e723a01c89e0796e5cfc2e

---
date: '2022-11-18'
title: Synapse 1.72 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Mathieu Velten
---

It's not yet Christmas, but it's time for a new release! Say hello to [Synapse 1.72](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.72.0).

> It seems like this blog didn't self update through AI for the 2 precedent updates so this post will cover 1.70 to 1.72, sorry if this is a bit long but it's been a while :)

Reviewer 3: I think this should be preceding not precedent?

```suggestion
It seems like this blog didn't self update through AI for the 2 preceding updates so this post will cover 1.70 to 1.72, sorry if this is a bit long but it's been a while :)
```

## Announcements

### Dropping support for PostgreSQL 10

> PostgreSQL 10 being End Of Life, Synapse will not support it beginning with version 1.72 so please upgrade your DB if not already done.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL 10 has reached End Of Life: Synapse will no longer support it beginning with version 1.72 so please upgrade your database if you have not already done so.
```

### Changes to the events received by application services (interest)

[MSC3905](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3905-appservice-only-interested-in-local-users.md) has been implemented, Synapse now only considers local users to be interesting. In other words, the users namespace regex is only be applied against local users of the homeserver.

Please note, this probably doesn't affect the expected behavior of your application service, since an interesting local user in a room still means all messages in the room (from local or remote users) will still be considered interesting.

You can find a bit more info in the MSC and in the (upgrade notes)[https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.71/upgrade.html#changes-to-the-events-received-by-application-services-interest].

## The new stuffs

### Threads, threads, threads!

Several MSCs related to threads got implemented:
- [MSC3856](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3856-threads-list-api.md) providing an API to fetch threads and related metadata.

> - [MSC3771](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3771-read-receipts-for-threads.md) and [MSC3773](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3773-notifications-for-threads.md) implementing per thread read receipts and per thread notifications count.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [MSC3771](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3771-read-receipts-for-threads.md) and [MSC3773](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3773-notifications-for-threads.md) implementing per thread read receipts and per thread notification counts.
```

> - [MSC3874](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/justjanne/messages-endpoint-threads-filter/proposals/3874-messages-endpoint-threads-filter.md) allows to filter out messages belonging to threads from the main timeline. Along with MSC3856, this should noticeably improve performance of rooms that use threads heavily.

Author: Yes good point, and same for MSC3912. I've added some experimental notes.

This should significantly improve user experience related to threads, being through behavior or performance impact.

> ### Bounding events together

Reviewer 3: I don't think "Bounding" is the correct word here, but I'm not 100% sure what is -- maybe "Bundling"?

Author: I am not sure TBH, any other feedback from people regarding that ?

Reviewer 2: Replacing this with "Linking" which sounds more fitting to me

---
date: '2022-11-18'
title: Synapse 1.72 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Mathieu Velten
---

It's not yet Christmas, but it's time for a new release! Say hello to [Synapse 1.72](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.72.0).

It seems like this blog didn't self update through AI for the 2 preceding updates so this post will cover 1.70 to 1.72, sorry if this is a bit long but it's been a while :)

## Announcements

### Dropping support for PostgreSQL 10

PostgreSQL 10 has reached End Of Life: Synapse will no longer support it beginning with version 1.72 so please upgrade your database if you have not already done so.

### Legacy Prometheus metric names disabled and to be removed

In previous versions of Synapse, some Prometheus metrics were emitted under two different names,
an older name that was non-compliant with OpenMetrics and Prometheus conventions and a new compliant name.

Synapse v1.71 have the old metric names switched off by default.

For now it's still possible to get them by using `enable_legacy_metrics: true`,
however if you still use them you should really migrate because it will be removed in v1.73.

> You can find the full list of renamed metrics [here](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.69/metrics-howto.html#renaming-of-metrics--deprecation-of-old-names-in-12).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the full list of renamed metrics [here](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.72/metrics-howto.html#renaming-of-metrics--deprecation-of-old-names-in-12).
```

## The new stuff

### Threads, threads, threads!

Several MSCs related to threads got implemented:
- [MSC3856](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3856-threads-list-api.md) providing an API to fetch threads and related metadata.
- [MSC3771](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3771-read-receipts-for-threads.md) and [MSC3773](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/main/proposals/3773-notifications-for-threads.md) implementing per thread read receipts and per thread notification counts.
- [MSC3874](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/justjanne/messages-endpoint-threads-filter/proposals/3874-messages-endpoint-threads-filter.md) allows to filter out messages belonging to threads from the main timeline (still considered experimental). Along with MSC3856, this should noticeably improve performance of rooms that use threads heavily.

This should significantly improve user experience related to threads, being through behavior or performance impact.

### Bounding events together

Relationships are great, even more between events than humans!

> [MSC3912](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/babolivier/relation_redaction/proposals/3912-relation-based-redaction.md) gives us an easy way to redact an event with its relations of a certain type (experimental support for now).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[MSC3912](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/babolivier/relation_redaction/proposals/3912-relation-based-redaction.md) gives us an easy way to redact an event with its relations of a certain type (though this feature is still experimental for now).
```

> [MSC3912](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/babolivier/relation_redaction/proposals/3912-relation-based-redaction.md) gives us an easy way to redact an event with its relations of a certain type (experimental support for now).

Reviewer 2: I'm going to rewrite this paragraph, because the implementation is currently very incomplete so I don't think it should be given that much attention.

For example it's usually good practice to redact all the edited versions of a message.
Beforehand this work would have been done one event at a time by the client itself, now you can just specify relation types you want to delete in `with_relations` and the server will take care of that for you!

[MSC3664](https://github.com/deepbluev7/matrix-doc/blob/notifications-for-relations/proposals/3664-notifications-for-relations.md) allows Matrix clients to be notified in real time of related events,
so you can now be made quickly aware of this cat emoji reaction that your cat photo clearly deserved.

### Faster joins, continued

We continue our journey to get everything going as transparently as possible when doing fast remote room joins.

If you missed it you can refer to this previous [blog post](https://matrix.org/blog/2022/10/18/testing-faster-remote-room-joins) to get a lot more infos,
and feel free to grep Synapse changelog and the numerous related issues/PRs for all the gory details.

## Everything else

> See the [full changelog](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases) for a complete list of changes in the releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [full changelog](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.72.0) for a complete list of changes in the releases.
```

> Also please have a look at the [upgrade notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.72/upgrade) for this version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also please have a look at the [upgrade notes](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/v1.72/upgrade#upgrading-to-v1720) for this version.
```
